---
layout: post
title:  "Shuhari"
date:   2017-06-04 18:28:58 -0300
categories:
---

When we were in college, we have probably learned basic things, such as: visual hierarchy, typography, color theory. However, first, it’s been ages ago (for me)! We always need to refresh our knowledge.

Second, how many of us can really say for sure that we remember everything we learn in college 100%? Definitely not me. Back in the days, all I could think about was going home as fast as I could to play some games. Unless I make the effort to re-learn those things, most of the things I learn in college will be quickly forgotten.

Third, when we were studying, we didn’t really have the idea of how it will be like in the field. But now, it’s a different thing. We experience the industry first hand. We know what it’s like in this industry. And that provides a different perspective in what we learn.

What I would like to emphasize here is that working and learning create a different state of mind. When we are working with a client, our mind is not really in the state of learning new knowledge. We are in the state of creating something to achieve the goal. We are also limited by clients’ expectations, restrictions. But when we redo all the basic things, we are learning something fundamental which can later be applied in any conditions.

This is what I have always been doing. Whenever I feel stuck, I go back to basic.

In result, I gain a better frame of mind as I design. I can also feel how my sense in visual design is sharpened. New ideas, variations can suddenly pop up in my head.
